#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Exercise 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
An atomic operation
\series default
 is an operation where the processor both reads and writes to the same bus,
 meaning no other processor or I/O device can write or read memory until
 that operation is complete.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
A semaphore
\series default
 is a variable for access control.
 The problem in exercise 1 could be solved by setting wait(A) before the
 increment/decrement and signal(A) after, where A is the semaphore.
 wait() would decrement the value, preventing any other wait() to be allowed
 to run.
 When it's done with the memory, it would call signal(A) and increment A
 again.
 A could switch between 0 and 1.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A 
\series bold
mutex
\series default
 is a flag, when 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

held
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 by a thread, that thread can access a certain piece of code in the program
 and no other.
 The other threads can only ask and wait to be given the flag, and the thread
 with the flag releases it when it's done.
 This is to ensure that the specific piece of code will only be executed
 by a single thread at a time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A 
\series bold
critical section
\series default
 is a specific piece of code that accesses a shared resource.
 That piece of code must not be accesses by more than one thread at a time.
 You should lock it and use a mutex.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
